# January 25, 2025

## Gtd and taskwarrior

Today I read about GTD (Get Things Done) and task warrior. I have some
understandings about the idea to how to organize the tasks. However, I have some
questions related to GTD:

- Which situation the actions that received `+waiting` will appears to be
  executed?
- About defer, I have some questions related to actions that is from a project
  but does not receive `+next` tag. When this task will be reviewed?
- When I have to use `tickle` instead of `think`? Or `tickle` is only to support
  `think` command?

To answer the questions above:

- Some items are delegate (postpone) with `due` and `waiting` specific dates,
  but it is not related to `tickle` or `think` because both use `in` tag
- `think` when you want to think about something one more day, need to be a
  yes/no question.
- `tickle` is about tasks that you do not want think right now about it, and not
  be displayed until certain date
- Both `think` and `tickle` are different from _delegate_ because they do not
  put a task inside **inbox**. Delegate are related to **actionable** tasks as
  well, not abstract ones.

For tasks that is delegated we can use a program called `tasksh` to review. Same
works for `tickle` tasks that receive `+waiting` tag as well.

Defered tasks are tasks regarding a specific project. These tasks can receive
`+next` tag or not, but they need to be related to project.

Try to broken tasks into small pieces because most of the time they are too
abstract or big enough to begin, so almost everything is a project. Create a
small group of tasks to begin the project and then create more one `inbox` item
to be the idea/spark behind the second set of tasks and go on, until the project
is finished. T

> [!info]
>
> inbox task never return to inbox in any situation, it is going to the trash or
> it remade to, using new idea/sentence to think again it

## Sources

- [GTD with Taskwarrior, part 4: Processing](https://cs-syd.eu/posts/2015-07-05-gtd-with-taskwarrior-part-4-processing.htmlhttps://cs-syd.eu/posts/2015-07-05-gtd-with-taskwarrior-part-4-processing.html)
- [Getting Things Done (GTD) and what I made of it](https://www.hbarel.com/posts/Getting-Things-Done-GTD-and-what-I-made-of-it.html)
